# Options price prediction based on historical data using various regression models.
Data and description can be found at: https://www.historicaloptiondata.com/content/sample-files-0

The historical data are downloaded from free source and contain the trades on options for all tickers for entire month of October 2015.  Option price of each ticker depends on multiple variables including: Expiration date, Strike, Day of trade, Option type, and Current Stock Price. Plot 1 shows dependence of option price on strike and expiration date during a single trading day of Oct 1, 2015 for option of type “Call”.
I implemented preliminary predictive models using single ticker only: Amazon (AMZN). Data was separated by trading days in the following way: train dataset Oct 1-Oct 20, 2015, validation and test datasets Oct 21-Oct 24/Oct25-Oct 30 2015. Models were trained using training dataset with repeated cross validation, hyper parameters were verified using validation dataset.
2 regression models were tested: Bayesian regularized neural network (brnn) and Lasso and Elastic-Net Regularized Linear Model (glmnet) using caret toolset. Root mean square error (RMSE) was used as performance metric. brnn model performed ~20% better on average comparing to glmnet. I used validation dataset to predict the option prices and compared the actual and predicted option prices. In 2nd plot the data of predicted and real options prices is displayed showing results predicted for Oct 21, 2015 (for option type “call” and Single Expiration date of Oct 25, 2015) . The model did well for the  higher Strike values, but didn’t predict variations in lower Strike regions where the price fluctuates significantly most likely due to the volatility. 
To improve model’s accuracy, I plan to introduce new metric that describes the volatility of the market based on the price change and add it as another feature to the model. Additionally, I plan to test more models including Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) with Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) unit which showed promising result in Stock Price prediction project I worked on.

